==what s needed for AREA data-base.

At the end, what I need is a .csv file having one line per game looking this way :

date, tournament, nature of game, round, player 1 name, player 2 name, player 1 trig, player 2 trig, result, side, scenario code, scenario name (or comment)

Here is a true example :
2009-09-20,CASLO_09,c,5,Dwayne Matheson,Bill Bird,6ND,BDW,L,Allies,J  9,A Stiff Fight,

Date should be in YYYY-MM-DD format. Sometimes we do not know the day the game was played. Only first and last days of the tournament. 
I usually induce the date if round information is available. 5 rounds tournaments are usually friday/friday/sat/sat/sat/sun.
If nothing works, I put everything on day 1. There is a small impact on AREA (very small).

"nature of game" is simply to indicate if it is a game from the main event (letters c or g), a game from a "mini" (letter m), or a friendly game not to be taken into account for AREA chits (letter f).

Round : sometimes we do not know rounds and/or there is no such notion in TD s name. In these cases, I put 0.

players' names are indicative, for easing human reading if needed. I have found that here are numerous little errors  spelling, short names, variations, etc); I am able to keep the name as put by TD in that game and yet not to incur in errors by using the trigram.

Result comes in 3 flavours : "W" for win, "L" for loss and "T" for tying or drawing (so not "D" for some reason).

Sides are optional. It has to be "Axis" or "Allies" (not allied)

Scenario code and name are optional.
If available, the code should be in a different version than the one used by ROAR. This for 2 reasons : I use a table "scenario code gives scenario details" that has been done by Darryl Lundy.
Alas, this table is no longer being updated and it is a huge work... In any case, ROAR does not indicate defense/attack sides and does not guarantee unicity of scenario short code. Some things needs to be done on this issue of scenarios names and sides.


==How I usually get there
Most of the times, I start from a spread-sheet file given by TD. I name this tab "Orig" and create 2 tabs; "BN" where the csv will  come from and "Names" where I will be able to deduce Trigrams from names. 
The Orig tab usually comes with one line per game. Info is given in very different ways and orders but basics -names and result, sometimes round- are given on each line-. It is easy to copy those cells into the BN tab on line 1 and then just copy that line all the way down.
I use lookup functions to find the trig on the Names tab.
Sometimes "result" is not easy because of the way the TD registers this fact (using the nationality, or duplicating name, or indicating the loser and not the winner, etc). Care is required on
this particular cell.
Sides and scenario are always different from TD to TD and are often missing. This has to be done case by case.

Sometimes TD give me text files or even pdf files and things are a bit different.
